Update Script Canvas Text Replacement (#1914)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/scripting/script-canvas/editor-reference/text-replacement.md

---
linkTitle: Node Text Replacement
title: Script Canvas Node Text Replacement
description: Learn how to customize the text on Script Canvas nodes in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
weight: 500
---

**Script Canvas** has a text replacement system that allows all available nodes to be further customized. Method names, categories, argument names, and tooltips can all be updated to improve their wording in a Script Canvas graph.

## How it works

When Script Canvas nodes are created, the developer can provide identifying and clarifying details such as the node's name, their category in the **Node Palette**, the names of their arguments and return values, and their tooltips. However, all of these details can be overridden using text replacement files.

> Text replacement files use a JSON format and a file extension of `.names`. You can find all the text replacement files that were generated for the nodes that are included with O3DE in the directory `Gems/ScriptCanvas/Assets/TranslationAssets`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text replacement files use a JSON format and a file extension of `.names`. You can find all the text replacement files that were generated for the nodes and included with O3DE in the directory `[Gems/ScriptCanvas/Assets/TranslationAssets](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/Gems/ScriptCanvas/Assets/TranslationAssets)`.
```

You can generate or update `.names` files for new or existing nodes using **Script Canvas Editor**, as shown in the following sections.

**Asset Processor** processes all the `.names` files for Script Canvas Editor to use in the Node Palette and when drawing the nodes in a graph.

## Rules for updating text

To customize a node in a `.names` file, you can update any of the following fields contained within any `details` field:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `name` | The name of the node, argument, or return type. |
| `category` | The category in the Node Palette to place the node in. Supports nested categories by using the "/" character. Example: "Gameplay/Missions". |

> | `tooltip` | Provides a tooltip to the element, this can be the node itself, or any of the node slots when the tooltip is added on a method or arguments. |

Reviewer: Change to "argument" if it's singular, or something like "set of arguments" if it's plural. This is because it follows the article "a", to indicate singular. 
```suggestion
| `tooltip` | Provides a tooltip to the element. This can be the node itself, or any of the node slots when the tooltip is added on a method or argument. |
```

> | `subtitle` | This can be used on the entry details object, it allows overriding the node's subtitle. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `subtitle` | This can be used on the entry details object. It overrides the node's subtitle. |
```

Author: Good catch. I missed these when reviewing grammar.

{{< important >}}

> Some fields in a `.names` file should _not_ be modified. They are used by the system to create a key into a database of text fields.

Reviewer: Maybe you can add a best practice to deal with these cases. For example, would you suggest that the user only modify `.names` files they know?

Author: No, not necessarily. This warning is about not touching certain _fields_ in a `.names` file. Maybe we could call them reserved fields or something similar? The specific fields are called out in the next paragraph.

Reviewer: No need this makes sense as is! I think when I first read it, I misunderstood and thought that some .names files exist that shouldn't be edited. Not due to wording, just my own misread :)

{{< /important >}}

**The following fields should NOT be changed**:

* `base`
* `context`
* `variant`
* `typeid`

Any changes to these fields will result in the Script Canvas Editor being unable to find the desired text to update and will result in the translation data being ignored.

## Getting started

### Example: Generating a translation file to replace text

1. Open Script Canvas Editor.

1. Navigate or search for the desired node in the Node Palette. We will use AWSGameLiftPlayer in this example.

>     ![Image 0](/images/user-guide/scripting/script-canvas/text-replacement-0.png)

Author: Good catch! I missed those.

1. Right-click on any of the nodes under AWSGameLiftPlayer.

    ![Image 1](/images/user-guide/scripting/script-canvas/text-replacement-1.png)

1. Choose **Generate Translation**. This will open a File Explorer window to an auto-generated file named `AWSGameLiftPlayer.names`.

    If you do not wish to make any changes to the auto-generated data, you can close the Script Canvas Editor window and reopen it. Any changes from generating or editing the `.names` file will appear.

    ![Image 2](/images/user-guide/scripting/script-canvas/text-replacement-2.png)

>     In this example, all of the names are now separated by a space, and the naming follows the Script Canvas naming convention to use Camel Case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this example, all of the names are now separated by a space, and the naming follows the Script Canvas naming convention to use camel case.
```

### Example: Changing the node category

> We have succesfully generated translation data for a node, but its category is still under "Other". To change this, edit the generated file `AWSGameLiftPlayer.names`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've successfully generated translation data for a node, but its category is still under "Other". To change this, edit the generated file `AWSGameLiftPlayer.names`.
```

1. Navigate within the file to the outermost `details` field and add
`"category": "AWS Game Lift"`.

> 1. In addition, let's simplify the `name` from `"AWS Game Lift Player"` to `"Player"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In addition, simplify the `name` from `"AWS Game Lift Player"` to `"Player"`.
```

    ```json
    {
        "entries": [
            {
                "base": "AWSGameLiftPlayer",
                "context": "BehaviorClass",
                "variant": "",
                "details": {
                    "category": "AWS Game Lift",
                    "name": "Player"
                },
                "methods": [
                    ... STRIPPED FOR SIZE ... (See Appendix 1 for complete file before/after)
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

1. After saving the changes to `AWSGameLiftPlayer.names`, close Script Canvas Editor and open it again.

    The nodes are now in the proper category with the given name:

    ![Image 3](/images/user-guide/scripting/script-canvas/text-replacement-3.png)

### Example: Updating translation files

> In this scenario, we do not need to generate a new translation file, instead we just need to edit it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario, you don't need to generate a new translation file. Instead you only need to edit it.
```

1. Right-click on any of the nodes under AWSGameLiftPlayer.

    ![Image 2](/images/user-guide/scripting/script-canvas/text-replacement-1.png)

1. Choose **Explore Translation Data** in the context menu. It will open a File Explorer window on the file that contains the relevant translation data. In this example, the file is `AWSGameLiftPlayer.names`.

1. Open the file in your preferred text editor.

1. Find and update any desired elements.

1. Save your changes to `AWSGameLiftPlayer.names`, close Script Canvas Editor, and open it again. You should see your updates to the node(s).

## Best practices

Use the following text replacement best practices when working with `.names` files.

* Do not modify the `base`, `context`, `variant`, or `typeid` fields.

> * Use `Camel Case` syntax with spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use camel case syntax with spaces.
```

> * Use camel case syntax with spaces.

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to simplify this to "Capitalize each word in the string" or something to that effect? Many people understand camelCase to mean the first letter of the first word is lower case and subsequent words are capitalized. For them, capitalizing the first letter of every word is PascalCase.

* Add the `tooltip` field to provide details and context.
* Use the `category` field to organize nodes.
* Review your changes by closing and reopening the Script Canvas Editor.
* Watch for Asset Processor errors on `.names` files. These can be caused by errors in the JSON syntax.
* Commit `.names` files to source control; this will ensure they are tracked and changes are not overriden.
* Generating translation data will overwrite existing translation data. Be careful not to lose work. When in doubt, use the **Explore Translation Data** menu action first.

> * Different kinds of nodes will produce different kinds of `.names` files. Some `.names` files will define a single node; others will define many nodes within a single file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Different kinds of nodes produce different kinds of `.names` files. Some `.names` files define a single node; others define many nodes within a single file.
```
